---
title: AWS S3-101
description: description
date: '2019-02-20'
tags: ['aws']
---

## S3 Overview

S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure durable, highly-scalable object storage. Amazon S3 is easy to use, with a simple web interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

* S3 is a safe place to store your files.
* It is Object-based storage.
* The data is spread across multiple devices and facilicties
  
## Basics

* S3 is Object-based - allows you to upload files.
* Files can be anywhere from 0 Bytes to 5TB
* There is unlimited storage.
* Files are stored in Buckets (think of a bucket like a folder in the cloud).
* S3 is a universal namespace. That means, names must be unique globally.
* Every bucket you create will have a web address or DNS you can use to connect
* Bucket names **must** be unique
* Sample bucket url <https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/bucketname>
* When you upload a file to s3 you will recieve and http status code of 200 if the upload was successful
* Built for 99.99% availablity for the S3 platform
* Amazon Guarentees 99.9% availability
* Amazon Guarentees 99.999999999% durability for S3 information (that's 11 9's total)
* Tiered Storage Available
* Lifecycle Management
* Versioning
* Encryption
* Secure your data using Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies
  
## Data Consistency Model For S3

* Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new Objects
* Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)
* Basically if you are creating a new file you will get immediate read after write
* If you are updating or deleting it may take some time for you to notice your change due to the fact the change has to take effect across multiple availability zones.
  
## S3 Is A Simple Key-value Store

* S3 is Object based. Objects consist of the following:
  * Key (name of the object i.e. file.txt, chart.csv)
  * Value (the data made up of a sequence of bytes i.e. text inside file.txt)
  * Version ID (Important for versioning)
  * Metadata (Data about the data being stored)
  * Subresources:
    * Access Control Lists
    * Torrent

## S3 Storage Tiers/Classes

* S3 Standard: 99.99% availability, 99.999999999% durability, stored redundantly across multiiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.
* S3 IA: (Infrequently accessed): For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3, but you are charged a retieval fee.
* S3 One Zone - IA: A lower cost optin for infreqently accessed data, but do not require the multiple Availablity Zone data resilience.
* Glacier: Very cheap, but used for archivalonly. Expedited, Standard or Bulk. A standard retrieval time takes 3 - 5 hours.
  
## S3 Charges

* Charged for:
  * Storage
  * Requests
  * Storage Management Pricing (Metadata)
  * Data Transfer Pricing
  * Transfer Accesleration

## S3 Transfer Acceleration

Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your end users and an s3 bucket.
Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of Amazon Cloudfront's globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.

## Wrap Up

Read the [FAQ](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/faqs/)
